# Prepare for Heat IRC meeting - 05/07/2017.

## Links

[1] [Spec about Heat rolling upgrade](https://review.openstack.org/#/c/407989)

[2] [Spec about Ironic rolling upgrade](https://github.com/openstack/ironic-specs/blob/master/specs/approved/support-rolling-upgrade.rst)

[3] [Ironic Trello board about multinode grenade](https://trello.com/c/GAlhSzLm/2-rolling-upgrades-and-grenade-with-multi-node)

[4] [Kolla-ansible multinode gate](https://review.openstack.org/#/c/466007/)

[5] [Stuffs about gate](https://github.com/ntk148v/openstack-gate-stuffs)

[6] [Adding the Spec for the upgrade test toolset](https://review.openstack.org/#/c/449295/)

## Problems [1]

1. Multinode gate.

- Grenade is the OpenStack test harness that exercises the upgrade process
  between releases [14]. It was designed with the main purpose of testing
  backward compatibility of project configuration, so it does not provide
  tests or tools for validating the different maturity levels of an
  upgrade (In this spec scope, it is rolling upgrade). Heat already has
  Grenade plugin.

- The first strategy is a proposal for adding more tests and capabilities
  to Grenade:

  - Multinode deployment: Grenade multinode was implemented [15], howerver
    Grenade is not aware of the other nodes, so the responsibility of
    lauching the other node and installing the appropriate services falls
    on other projects on the gate. This makes failures in Grenade more
    difficult to debug and developers cannot reproduce failures locally
    easily. This also limits the possible configurations and upgrade tests
    that can be run since Grenade can only control one node [16].

  - Grenade shuts down all services at one. If we want to follow this
    strategy, we need change Grenade flow so it won't shut down all
    services at once. Keep services alive and let rolling upgrade kill
    them in the order as defined.

  - A new grenade option to call rolling upgrade scripts.

- Grenade was already pushing its limits, so we need another strategy. The
  second strategy is a Kolla/Ansible based gate job.

  - Multinode Deployment with Load balancer: Kolla already provides
    multinode environment with load balancer (HAproxy) by default.

  - Rolling upgrade scripts.

  - Integrate Kolla/Ansible into gate. Create several scripts to handle
    deploy and upgrade process on the project side.

2. Oslo versionedobjects.

   Just an object layer, no versioning.

3. Rolling upgrade test scripts: Need to define set of scripts for rolling
   upgrade testing:

   - Run a subset of tempest smoke test
   - Run scripts to send several async requests to Heat-api.

## Relate

1. In **Ironic spec about Rolling upgrade**, they raise idea about multinode
   grenade gate CI for rolling upgrade testing. I just found Trello board
   about this work, but seem like they don't have any updates about it. I will
   ask them about it later. [2][3]

2. Kolla-ansible already has multinode gate (Not for rolling upgrade of course).
   We can follow it this work, but it maybe very difficult because
   Kolla-ansible use its scripts, playbook for generate inventory, global
   config files. [4]

3. Castulo J.Martinez has raised some ideas about Upgrade test toolset [6].


## Questions.

1. Do you want to create a multinode gate job? For Heat only or may be new
   project like Grenade, but for rolling upgrade testing purpose.

